Hello and welcome back to the course on machine learning I hope you enjoyed the previous tutorials and
now you're quite confident with the confidence bound and the Tompson sampling algorithm or at least
the intuition behind them.
And today we're going to quickly compare the two because they do solve the same problem they solve the
problem of the multi armed bandit and let's have a look at some of the pros and cons of each of the
algorithms.
So there of course is lots and lots of different advanced and disadvantage and differences between the
two but we'll just highlight the main ones.
So here we've got the two algorithms on the left.
We've got the ECB and the image from the intuition tutorial that will help us to remember what it's
what it's about.
And the Tompson sampling algorithm and same the image behind it.
So the first characteristic is probably that is different is that the UCB is a deterministic algorithm
and actually there's lots of different there's lots of different modifications to these algorithm.
You can find them online there's lots of different white papers on how they use the algorithm can be
modified to improve it and to make it better at one thing or like as one advantage made makes this a
bit better a result but it makes it more can potentially intensive or the other way around and so on.
So but all of that all of those algorithms belong to a family of UCB Algren's Opper confident Bollen
algorithms which are all deterministic and basically what that means is that it is very straightforward.
Right so once you have certain round it is very very straightforward what's going to happen.
You just look at the upper corner of Hezbollah and whichever one has the highest that's the one you
pick.
You pull the algorithm Yes or you pull you pull the lever yes then you do get like a random value from
the machine.
But that's that's that's it's that's on the side of the machine.
So that's what randomness is on the side of a machine on the machine and then but then whatever value
get it is very determined.
It is very deterministic what the to be is going to do with that value.
And so all the steps that the U.S. actually takes they're very deterministic.
There's no randomness in the algorithm itself.
Whereas on the other hand the Tomsen sampling algorithm is a probabilistic algorithm because in that
the algorithm itself it has these distributions which represent our perception of the world and where
we think the actual expected returns of each of those machines might lie.
And therefore every time we are implementing or iterating in the temporal sampling algorithm we actually
generate random values from those distributions.
So if you rerun around in the UCB algorithm just one given round after you've received the value from
the previous value from the machine and then you rerun the round.
It's always going to be the same result.
Whereas in the sampling Algren after you've received the previous value from the machine and you rerun
the current round.
So it's always going to be different because you're always sampling from your distributions which characterize
your perception of the world and that is a whole different type of algorithm.
It's a probabilistic algorithm.
And those two things they actually have a few different implications.
Right.
So for instance one important one is that the UCB requires an update at every round.
Right so basically the value that you get back from the use from the machine.
So once you've pulled the lever and you get a value back from that machine that value you have to incorporate
it right away in order to proceed to the next round you cannot proceed to the next round until you have
incorporated that value until you have made an adjustment to the algorithm based on that value because
if you don't make the adjustment then nothing changes and you're going to be stuck.
Whereas in the Tompson sampling it can accommodate delayed feedback and it's very important.
This basically means that if you pull the lever and you only will get the results you will only know
the result of pulling the lever 500 rounds down the track.
Right.
Not right away you'll only get to know all 500 rounds later.
THOMPSON The sampling Algor will still work.
Why will it work because if you now run the algorithm without even updating your perception of the world
you're still going to get a new set of hypothetical bandits.
Right you're going to generate a new and you expected return for everybody because you are generating
them in a probabilistic manner.
And this is very important to understand because this gives the Tompson sampling that advantage that
you don't have to update the algorithm with the result every time.
And in terms of just terms of bandas of course it doesn't really matter that much because if you're
playing in the casino and out of sight if some hypothetical person is playing in a casino and they're
pulling these lever's they get to the results right away.
So they could update Algor.
But in terms of Web sites and ads that is a big deal right.
So not even just not even just displaying ads on a Web site or you could use this for like AB testing
different instead of AB testing the different layouts of your Web site right.
You could you could use a Tompson sampling algorithm to have that balance between exploitation exploration
right away.
So basically anything you're doing on the web with Thomson sampling or like solving a multi armed bandit
problem for your business or for a business on the web.
You getting all these thousands and tens of thousands of clicks right.
And to update the algorithm right away that would be very highly computationally computationally costly
or it might require additional resources and a complex process whereas if you were what the and sampling
algorithm allows you to do is to update your dataset or your information algorithm in a batch manner
so you you wait until you get 500 clicks or you wait until you get 5000 clicks.
You update the algorithm and then you let it run and then it runs runs runs and then you get another
5000 clicks and then you update the algorithm again and it will still work and that's a very important
thing that that flexibility that the Tompson sampling algorithm creates.
And finally again we're not going to go into too much detail on the pros and cons but the Tompson sampling
algorithm is actually it has better empirical evidence than they used to be.
And they you find this phrase better empirical evidence and that's because up until recently the the
theory behind the Tompson sampling algorithm or you know the whole research wasn't wasn't complete it's
only been researched very detail in a lot of detail called just a few years ago and you know now you
can find a lot of information on Thompson sampling algorithm where previously people just see that from
experimental evidence that Thompson sampling algorithm does work better than these would be.
And that's exactly what we're going to see.
Spoiler alert.
And that's exactly what you're going to see in the practical tutorials for this section.
So we're going to be now coding or had lunch we'll walk you through coding the same exercise the same
problem that we had previously with these would be no.
Are you going to be solving it with some Tompson sampling algorithm and you will see actually some very
interesting results.
We'll leave it at that and I hope you enjoy these intuition tutorials and off we go to the practical
side of things can wait for you to get started.
Had lunch we'll show you all around and I'll see you back here next time.
Until then in Germany learning.